---
tags:
  - Prose
  - KyleSaltz
  - NewEdenCapsuleersWritingContestYC121
---

# Interrogation of a Paladin

> Author: Kyle Saltz

> Original post: [https://backstage.eve-inspiracy.com/index.php?topic=7608.0](https://backstage.eve-inspiracy.com/index.php?topic=7608.0)

> Entry for YC121 New Eden Capsuleer’s Writing Contest in the Prose category.


Inside the CVA Keepstar in 9UY a Paladin Warden was escorted while cuffed into the interrogation cambers. Upon entering he noticed the Priest-interrogator sitting opposite the table while the guards sat him down. A large file and data slate laid on the center of the table of the Spartan room.

The Paladin Warden still wore his battle suite without his helm. His suite was dirty with mixture of mud and grim from the days exploits planet side. Some smudges had the tail tale markings of blood and spatter markings denoted the brutality of the fight he had experienced as well as its closeness.

The Priest-Interrogator eyed the Warden. Looking the warrior up and down as if finding fault with his very existence. Let us start off with prayer. Both men bowed their heads while the priest intoned. “*Our Lord visited his flock and saw that all was not good. Blasphemy and heresy ruled the land. The Lord punished the sinners and drowned them in their own blood. But the people of Amarr lived righteously and in fear of God. Thus they were saved and became God’s chosen.*” Before the Priest could continue the cuffed Paladin finished the prayer with “*The Scriptures Book II 2:1.*”

The Priest eyed the Paladin nodding. Guards, unshackle this man and leave us. The guards quickly and nimbly set to the task removing the restraints from the Paladin and exited the door no doubt taking up positions just outside it if need arises for their intervention. There now we can be civil intoned the Priest. Paladin Warden you have serious accusations levied against you. The priest picked up the file and perused its documents. However, before we get to that let us get to know one another. 

I am Priest-Interrogator 1st class Father Danue. So tell me how does a Federation boy come to live in Amarrian space and then serve as a Paladin? The Priest intoned leaning forward. I do not see many Gallente recruits. Why not serve in the Federation forces? 

The Paladin’s expression turned hard and he held his chin high. “*I am Amarrian and I serve god.*”

The Priest leaned back upon that answer taken by the presence of the Paladin. This one was an interesting quandary indeed. Well then Paladin, why do you “SERVE” god?

The Paladin’s expression remained the same as if a statue in his reply. “*I will not hesitate when the test of Faith finds me, for only the strongest conviction will open the gates of paradise. My faith in you is absolute; my sword is Yours, MY GOD, and YOUR will guides me now and for all eternity. The scriptures, Prophet Kuria, Paladin’s Creed.*”  What it means to me is what is faith without works? My faith in god is absolute. It is my duty to serve as god’s sword. For this fulfills my soul. *To serve, unshakably, is to reach greatness.  The Scriptures, Amash Akura, 25:16*. With that the Paladin remained silent.

Moments passed as the Priest took in everything the Paladin remarked on. Paladin Warden, you are possibly up on charges of murder. You and I know the consequences of such behavior. The priest grabbed the data slate and scrolled through its reports. While not looking up the Priest continued. You are decorated. Your service during the invasion was noted. You fought throughout the conflict gaining a medal and recognition from your corporation. Your service record shows no signs of combat until you entered the services of CVA. You were given command of the Ground and Space Forces that entered into Pacification of Thebeka for CVA. A noteworthy exploit in and to itself. You aided in negotiating peace accords between CVA and IRED an organization which we were hostile to for over 8 years. You even negotiated another alliance to join CVA from the Imperial Militia. You have what many would believe a stellar reputation and commitment to laws and order. 

Yet, on your last mission you are accused of murdering a civilian. An unarmed civilian at that. A…unarmed…Civilian…woman…the priest took his time to allow every word take effect upon its recipient. Those actions alone are enough to wash every exploit you have ever done from your record and render you a disgrace to everything you claim to stand for. As a Paladin of the Providence Marches you are held to a higher standard of conduct.

Tell me the incidents of the last 24 hours and spare no details. Your report will be cross referenced with those of your platoon and witnesses. It will do you no good to lie as we will get to the truth of the matter. Also falsehoods will only make your situation worse than it already is Paladin. 
The Paladin sat for moments as the full impact of the speech took effect. His ice blue eyes for a moment took a tone of sadness before he continued his story. My name is…I am Paladin Warden Kyle Saltz of Corp 54. Given the title of Director. I serve CVA. I swear by God and my immortal soul that the following will be true.

Upon finishing up the last few diplomatic functions I attended I received reports that troubled me most foul on our Capital Planet inside 9uy. Reports were coming in at suspected banditry. However, as I read the reports I noticed a few things. The raids on supply convoys from the space port to our new city were too organized and too brutal to be simple bandits. They showed military efficiency. I believed that these bandits were possibly left behinds of the Pandemic Legion Forces that took this world as their deployed forward Capital.

So I put in a request to take a counterinsurgency team planet side to investigate and deal first hand with the problem. As a Paladin Warden the investigation of possible pirates and bandits operating inside the borderlands is inside my privy and jurisdiction.

The team consisted of 25 souls. All of them capsuleers which had volunteered with me in Thebeka and elsewhere. They were loyal and we had trained together for months. Not only could they fly ships of war in space they underwent months of training on ground warfare and tactics for the Thebeka campaign was both land and space. We had called ourselves originally the Provi 1st Volunteers. It became something more than that however.

These were men and woman that could be called upon in a moment’s notice to defend Providence and its geo-political footprint around the Universe. To fight to promote Provi and strengthen its allies both foreign and domestic. These men and woman had undergone training well in advance of this operation and even Thebeka. The timing was perfect for both advents as if it was gods will alone that was guiding us to fight for our beloved Empire.

We arrived on planet about a week prior to today. We gathered intelligence about convoys and the modus operandi of the “bandits.” These bandits seldom left survivors. Those that were “allowed” to live held stories of brutality and violence. They used autoguns and had at least one or two heavy autocannons with high caliber rounds. My idea at the time after hearing this was either we were dealing with Minmatar terrorists or left over Pandemic Legion. I could not rule either one as both used similar weapons. However, I was leaning on PL because of the murders of innocent bystanders. This is something our ancient foe I faced in Providence recently did not seem capable of doing.

At the time I arrived most of the Convoy operators and contractors had stopped running back and forth from the space port. As ambushes had been starting to be more regular and the massacres guaranteed at least 1 out of 3 convoys met gruesome fates.

You see most goods have to come to the space port. The location of the new capital city is about 12 hours travel on ground. These are rough roads and they used tracked vehicles to haul their goods. The new capital has yet to finish an airfield or port of itself for large shipments. So ground transportation is the key to the founding. The delays were costing the newly forming planetary body immensely. The local defense forces patrolled the route as well but seem to find nothing at all as if the enemy were ghosts. The Planetary defense forces had been hit several times in ambushes. Unfortunately with the war effort the best and brightest soldiers were on the front and not playing house keeper on the planet. The results were dead and mutilated bodies of planetary defense force soldiers strung up on trees along the route.

So I planned bait. I purchased several cargo containers. I had the techs modify them to my specific instructions. The sides of the containers had slots that could be opened on the inside to be used as firing ports. Or if need be the entire side panel could be dropped to make an impromptu ramp for quick exit. I had one of them fitted with a Pulse multi-las cannon. It would be perfect for anti-light armor and infantry. Then they were lightly filled with small arms, medical supplies, and food rations. Then I had them sent planet side in marked containers. I also assigned 5 of my Paladins to act as guards in full uniform once they arrived. I had them sit in the storage yard in plain view for several days.

I had arranged for the manifest to be sent out to most major convoy contractors. To request their business. Only one of them was willing to take the contract and fortunately for me it was the last convoy operator willing to even do the trip. The other groups were recovering from losses and or too scared to make the trip unescorted.

I went and visited the contractor at his office that was leading the convoy. After a brief wait I went into his office. I noticed several things about the man immediately. He was barely past middle age. His once blond hair peppered with grey in a clean high and tight. He was a solidly built man. His hair cut and sparkle in his eye made him a vet. I knew his background before I saw the holo-pic of a more youthful man in full uniform holding next to him a wife and adorable little blonde girl.  His name tag on his desk simply said Henry. No last name at all. This was a man that had been called his last name for many years to finally be free and wanted to be called by his first.

I thanked him for seeing me and I shook his hand and said “Amarr Victor brother.” His gaze found the same features in myself that I found in him. However, I dressed in a plain priestly robe. The question came from Henry’s lips quickly. “Did you serve son?” While still embracing his hand shake I replied with “I serve still. The Margrave needs your assistance. The Empire needs you once again.” There was no hesitation…no moment of thought it was immediate. Henry nodded and asked what was needed to be done. So I went over our plan.

We had disguised the 20 remaining Paladins including myself as pilgrims. All wearing heavy robes. I had divided ourselves into three squads for the three cargo containers. There would be 4 cargo haulers. Three of them for my articles and another hauler for civilian transport. I had a 7 Paladin squad code named Able in the front hauler. Then the second hauler with the Pulse Multi-Las had Chosen squad with 7 Paladins.  Finally the third hauler had Battle Squad with 6 Paladins. Of the 5 guards one of them was in each hauler as the passenger and of course the final one was on top of the Multi-Las. Every Paladin wore an advanced armored carapace. The Paladins in disguise of course had their helmets separate in bags alongside their weapons. Each Paladin was issued the Mark VI Las-Carbine. With adjustable fire settings from single, burst, and full auto. As well as power level adjustments. On each of their legs were strapped the standard Imperial Las-Pistol.

Henry gave the excuse to his drivers and other passengers that he was taking on additional personal. The exception was due to a group of priests coming to help found the new Cathedral. This story was accepted widely so we were allowed to sit in the cargo containers without much comment. A testament of the faith of these pilgrims and civilians many of them offered us their seats instead. We humbly refused stating that this is part of our service and sacrifice. Plus it is a favor alone that Henry and his people allowed us to travel.

Some of the pilgrims requested a special blessing before heading out. From my meetings with the pope of New Eden I had known blessings were a special moment that should be taken seriously. So I gave a simple blessing and then blessed each person on the trip. Imparting a special greeting and word to each individual. I would be lying if I said I did not find happiness in such prayers and words. Usually the only time I prayed out loud was alone or in the middle of combat. In such a peaceful atmosphere it felt right. These were truly god’s people. Amarrian pilgrims and frontiersmen wanting to hack out a living in the new borderlands. To build it to something greater than what it is. I admired them all for that dream.

As everyone starting loading in I noticed Henry arguing with two people so I ventured over. It appeared to be an older woman and her adult daughter. As soon as I got closer it became clear who they were. The holo-pic in Henry’s office. This was his wife and child. Child…she was not a child anymore. Fully an adult and at least in her early twenties. She was painfully beautiful. I thanked my blessings Henry had his back towards me as my face must have shown some sign of shock. As both mother and daughter turned to me. 

Henry had noticed the shift in focus and turned. Upon seeing me I was introduced to his wife Mary and his daughter Sarah. I bowed and made the most official greeting I could muster that didn’t sound military. Henry informed them that I was in charge of the priests coming with the convoy. He asked if it was ok if he and his men brought along their own rifles. Since the threat of violence and banditry has increased. Sarah and Mary on the other hand believed that faith in god was all that was needed to bring guns was to spit in their luck that they had in their previous runs.

It appeared that I was to be the tie breaker in this argument. Sarah stepped forward and asked me “Father, what does scripture says on this matter?” Her voice was so pure and elegant. Her accent and form of speech marked her of proper upbringing. Even standing across from her I marked the scent of Jasmine perfume. She obviously went to school and university in Amarr. It made her more endearing and almost wanted to agree with her regardless of the known risks.

I thought for a moment and in my most pleasant smile I thought of a passage. “*So the lord sent forth the Chosen, to bring forth the light of faith and those who embrace his love shall be saved by his grace. For we are his shepherds in the darkness. His Angels of Mercy. But those who turn away from his light, and reject his true word shall be struck down by his wrath. For we are his retribution incarnate. His Angels of Vengeance. The Scriptures, Book of Reclaiming 4:45.*”

In this time of woe and uncertainty your father is the Shepard protecting his flock I explained to Sarah. Her mother was pacified by my position alone most likely nodded and accepted it. She exclaimed she would still be driving the passenger vehicle. Sarah turned to her father and insisted that she be allowed to come mainly because she had always cooked the afternoon meal for the convoy. Henry thought of this for a moment before nodding and held his family remarking that that family should always stick together.

We loaded the convoy and I took my respective position in the second hauler. Before we took off I launched a small drone to be a scout on our expedition. I could see through the drones lens through the heads up display in my battle helm. I set the drone to follow at a distance and be the bird’s eye view of the convoy. It was not the heavier versions that were equipped with weapons but this was light and small, perfect for going about unnoticed in the sky. I set up a roster for different Paladins watching our progress.

The trip went well in the morning. The squad of Chosen and myself sat around and did what we could to remain comfortable in the situation. Henry had asked as a favor if Sarah could ride with us. He figured with her by me she would be safest and what he considered “the most trained eye on her.” He had worried that her inquisitive mind and her lack of situational awareness would get her in trouble. It was not an issue. It would be easy to put someone behind a crate if something did happen. I believe Henry figured placing her in the same hauler with a mounted multi-las would be the safest place. While to most I would agree. However, from experience that was usually the first target of a convoy.

I was trying to gather some rest when I felt the movement of someone close to me. I opened my eyes to find Sarah had come to sit across from me. She asked me how I could sleep when sitting in the container tosses you around with no seat belt or specialty seat to keep me comfortable. I simply smiled and said that I am trained to sleep anywhere. Looking around I noticed some of the same Paladin Wardens suffered from the same discomfort. They will learn in time I thought. Looking back at Sarah I noticed her lithe frame. She had pure Amarrian features. Her golden hair and high cheek bones. The flawlessly pale skin. If I had been in any other situation I would say she was beautiful. Even from this distance I could smell the Jasmine. I was shocked out of pondering when I noticed she too was staring at me.

Smiling I asked what was on her mind. Her smile seemed fetching but strained and something seemed to bother her. Father, she asked. Will god forgive me? I try to serve my family but I want what’s best for them and I believe I am sinful for wanting them safe. To serve unshakably is what god wants us to do Sarah, I replied. You are worried about your family. To want them safe and to continue to serve them is no sin. I thought to myself that I was no priest but it was the right thing to say. She was in thought for a moment before she spoke again. Well…but…I believe that…

Suddenly a case that carried one of the Paladins carbines fell off a crate and its containers latch broke open. The carbine was revealed to Sarah…The Paladin quickly went to the case and shut it. Looking over to me he stated, “sorry commander.” Sarah walked slowly towards me sitting directly across from me. Commander? She inquired as she looked at my eyes. I found her blue eyes piercing as if looking into my soul. I am a commander of priests. It is an inside joke I said leaning forward.   

Unfortunately it allowed my collar of my robe to reveal my battle carapace as I leaned forward. Without thinking she reached out and pulled it down revealing more of my suite. It was instinct but I grabbed her wrist. She winced in pain and shock in which I immediately let go. To lie is a sin father. Priests do not carry weapons and wear military uniforms under their robes she exclaimed.

I honestly wanted to blame Henry for putting me in the same container as his daughter but he had warned she had too much of an inquisitive mind. I tried to remain passive despite her inquiry. I am not priest as you can see and these priests you see before you are neither priests as well. We are all Paladin Wardens. We came here to hunt down and eliminate the bandits that have been hunting the convoys and people of this route. Her skin already pale turned paler still and she moved back. The shock realization of her outburst to a Paladin Warden. The holders and protectors of Providence. The immortal pilots that fight against the darkness. She bowed down prostrating herself before me. She begged forgiveness for the overreach that she did.

I told her to stop bowing and get up. She looked up with a mixture of fear in her face. I hated it. The people of Providence must never fear their protectors. We were not Pandemic Legion. They hunted their own serfs as if their space was their own private reserve. Just thinking about my hated enemy made me loath them even more.

I attempted to soften my appearance. I spoke calmly and soothingly as I could. Sarah…I said. Sarah please do not worry. We are here to safe guard you and your family. Everyone on this convoy is under our protection. We are not blind to the criminal acts on this planet. For the good of our people and society we came to cleanse the pirates and criminals. You’re suffering and fear is not without notice. We will not stand idle in the presence of evil Sarah. To defend the weak and those that live here in Providence is the calling of the wardens. Forgive my duplicity. I did not mean any offense to it.

Her face was a mixture of aww and sadness. What troubles these people must have suffered before our arrival only god knows. The average resident in Providence suffered much since the invasion. Nobody survived that stayed behind in northern Providence. Everyone was cleansed from the region. The act of genocide against the people of Providence haunted even me still. Despite this the Pandemic Legion armies only ever at their greatest extent took half of providence. Much of the people in the south only knew of raids and bright lights in the skies from our ships fighting one another.

For her most likely their family had been evacuated before the shadow of the Pandemic Legion forces took 9uy. The fortress system of 9uy fell to the hammer blows of the combined might of Northern Coalition, Pandemic Legion, Mercenaries, and pirate forces. The trapped people never stood a chance. Orbital bombardments, raids, and hunting parties destroyed everything. Stories abound of survivors that hid in the woods. That lived off the land. They were too few and far between.

Your father knows about us I explained to her. I would hope you keep word of our true nature a secret. We don’t want to tip off anyone in case there is a mole with-in the convoy. She nodded her agreement but remained silent for a time. The awkwardness between us made further conversation difficult.

The convoy around midday stopped. The fresh forest air was amazing. The rugged terrain and rough beauty of the planet was enchanting. I thought about making my home somewhere in these woods one day. I loved temperate worlds. Most of all temperate forests. The smell of pine and a cool breeze was refreshing from the recycled air and chemical smell that is found on ships and space stations. I laughed to myself and picked up a handful of dirt and allowed it to slowly roll out of my hand. I closed my eyes and tried to take in the noise and smells. To relish every moment of the forest as I could.

That was when I heard the bell ringing. The convoy had made a make shift chow line. The passengers were lining up. I talked to the fellow Paladins and told them to get chow in teams. So we would not be caught unaware. At least without their cases they had a side arm. The side arm is only meant to get to the primary weapon anyways.

I waited until every one of the civilians and other Paladins received their food. As I went up to the line I noticed Sarah and her mother dishing out bowls of soup. I received a bowl from Mary and thanked her kindly. Sarah handed an apple, box fruit drink, and a bread roll. When I started to move on she quickly put another roll on the plate and smiled. The earlier awkwardness seemed to of vanished like a noon mist. I smiled back and thanked her.

I went and sat by a tree attempting to enjoy the shade from the noon sun and eat my meal. The soup was hearty. The stew was a rich and hearty complement of meat and vegetables. I took the customary approach of dipping my bread into the liquids and eating it. While using a spoon as well.

Thinking and laughing to myself about what my Empire friends in PIE and LUMEN would think of if they saw my eating habits out here. Those fancy dinners and parties. Oh how I tormented myself reading every data slate I could on mannerisms and dining etiquette. I ate quickly and efficiently. No special manners or approach. Soup spoon entering the hot broth as soon as its contents were emptied in my mouth.

The stew was amazing. It was simple but good. I could see myself making a home here.  Maybe starting a family I thought to myself. To be honest I started to daydream of a different life from the one in the stars but a simple life on planet. One in which I came home every day and enjoyed simple meals. To have simple conversations and a simple life. 

I heard a snapped twig in the woods. It was movement for sure. It was moving away from the group. I set aside the meal longingly and focused at the task at hand. I started to follow and track the sound. I lightened my steps and moved into the forest. Slow is smooth and smooth is fast. I tracked the sound of the movement. The person was trying to be quiet and moving slow. They were not trained and to the trained ear it was as if a slaverhound was crashing through the forest. 

I slowly took out my side arm and kept low in the forest. The person was getting into the thicker areas of the forest. I started to think of the situation in which someone would do that. The paranoid mind saw the mole meeting with the enemy. Then the practical part of my mind thought of possibly someone relieving themselves in the forest.  The individual stopped. I started to slowly move forward. I steadied my breathing to control my heart beat. 

I heard a rustling of a bag. Then the screech of a radio. Someone was adjusting it to find a frequency. I moved forward finally seeing the shadow of someone on the other side of a tree. I slowly crept around easing my pistol forward and I saw the blonde hair and lithe frame. Sarah I exclaimed while quickly putting away my pistol. 

Her reaction was immediate she let out a low squeak and dropped the multi-purpose radio. It fell and hit perfectly on a rock smashing it open. She knelt down and grabbed the destroyed radio and looked up to me. She noticed the pistol in my hand and froze. We stood there in silence for a moment before she spoke. I just got back from university. In Amarr many students started to listen to new age music. Music from the sources that are not considered proper music here at home. Its music from the Federation. It might not be allowed here. I was trying to get its signal. Please, forgive me. I know it’s wrong to listen to some of their music. Especially if my father finds out he will be furious. 

My mind was spinning. She risked her life and almost got shot by me for music? These were boundaries that I was not used to. I know red or blue. Right or wrong. Kill on sight or innocent. This was something that I was not prepared for. I put my pistol away. I didn’t know what music was banned in Amarr from the Federation. Besides, her pouting lip and pure Amarrian face I could have been asked to solo a Titan in a frigate and would have gone willingly. I dismissed the small siren in the back of my mind and put away my pistol and waved off further questions with my hand. 
Smiling, I laughed a bit. Well if you were worried about your music and radio being a sin I believe god may have had me stumble upon you like this and drop the radio. It simply breaking may have been a sign. Let us head back to camp before people start to look for us. The last thing I want is your father to think we are being improper out here. 

We both laughed and chatted going back to camp. Despite my fears no search party was underway and I picked up my forgotten meal. I disposed of what was left and kept the apple munching on it as I made my way to find Henry. I found him chatting with some of the drivers while cleaning his Mark III las-Rifle. It was an older design than my carbine however, its long barrel and adjustable sights made it a terror on the battle field. It has the ability to reach out and touch even distant foes. 

I sat and chatted with Henry and the drivers until finally we were alone. He leaned over to me conspiratorially and raised his eyebrows and asked “so far any signs of the enemy?” I chewed on my lip debating chances and thinking over the question. Well sir, I don’t rightly know I had replied. We have a drone up watching our progress. We are monitoring it. It should only be a matter of time. If anything it could be for nothing and I get through unmolested. 

I had figured any insurgency worth its salt would foam at the mouth to take a convoy with medical supplies and weapons and such. Hmm…maybe we will have an uneventful day and uneventful is good in my experience. We continued to make small talk until Mary called an end to the lunch break and ordered people to start heading back into their respective places. Henry laughed about being in charge of the convoy and still his wife bossed him around.

On the last leg of the journey it was my turn to monitor the drone and the convoy. I figured since the “cat was out of the bag” in regards to who we were with Sarah I didn’t mind putting my helm on in front of her. However, at the start of the journey she didn’t take her usual spot in the cargo hold. I felt a small pang of something that I did not know what to call it. I suppressed the weird emotion and started to monitor the progress of the convoy. It was actually enjoyable work monitoring the progress. Being able to fly above the convoy like an avian bird. I was brought out of my thoughts by the smell of jasmine. 

I knew she must be near before I heard the sound of someone sitting next to me. My heart felt like it skipped a beat as I knew who it was. I slowed my heart by reciting verses in my mind. She was looking at me inquisitively. Seeing anything Paladin Warden? Hmm…Nothing but mountains and forests. It looks beautiful was my reply. Putting the heads up display to the top right of my visor I focused on her. Please just call me Kyle. Kyle she repeated. That is a name that I seldom go by. My friends call me usually Saltz, or Paladin Saltz. Even Paladin Warden. She smiled at that and said my name again. She smirked at that. So I can call you by a different name than anyone else she asked. For you, my lady you may. 

She then yawned and asked if she could use my shoulder as a rest. I accepted and she laid her head against me and started to drift off to sleep. Other Paladin Wardens were key to pick up on the situation and put on their helms. They closed circuited which cut noise from going to the outside of the helm and only that of our squad chat. Oi oi oi look at the Commander. He found himself a new friend exclaimed Sven. The hoots and cat calls coming from the other Paladins in Chosen squad did nothing to help the situation. I closed my helm as well and reported them to quiet down. I am a victim of the situation. She needed a pillow. Apparently that defense did nothing to support my cause. After another 10 mins of teasing they returned to their own musings. I was left alone with the smell of jasmine. 

Several hours later she murmured to herself and moved. She looked up at me and asked if I slept well. This had to be a joke. I was watching the data stream from the drone and our progress plus my arm was most likely dead from the lack of blood flow caused by her impromptu actions of using me as a pillow. I dismissed any adverse reactions and opened my helm comm. My voice sounded almost robotic coming out and I lowered the volume.

I am well but I did not sleep. I will sleep when we arrive at the founding I mentioned to her. Until then I have a duty to watch over everyone. She murmured something unintelligent while stretching. She looked at me and asked what I was going to do once we arrive at the founding? I was glad that I was wearing my helm as I believe I started to blush horribly. This was not a comfortable situation to be in. I’d be more comfortable facing a screaming group of HTP meat shields. 

She leaned closer to me and asked if I knew of a nice restaurant off Chapel Hill and New Amarr Blvd. I said I was unaware of such places. She smiled delightedly, well there is this chef that came right from Amarr. He was an advanced chef of some popularity. Apparently, there is lots of competition in Amarr over the best Chef of Amarrian cuisine. His brother wrote to him that he would corner the market on fine dining and told him of the founding. He packed up his goods and sold his place and made it to 9uy. He has one of the first restaurants in 9uy but also his cuisine is the finest. He is second to none in all of the Providence Marches. 

I had been to some fancy dinners with PIE and LUMEN so I felt confident I could pass with refined eating skills. So I agreed. She smiled and mentioned that she would meet me there at 2030 sharp tonight. I smiled. I had not been on a date since…well forever. I was so excited. I was going to be taking Sarah to dinner on an actual date. I inclined that I would have to ask permission to take her to dinner from her father. She laughed at the formality and nodded her acceptance while making fun of my old fashioned nature. I was so engrossed in our conversations I didn’t realize the improvised explosive devise planted on a tree in front of the convoy. 

The explosion rocked the convoy and the destroyed tree landed on the path in front of us. A secondary explosion on a similar tree behind us trapped us on location. A text book ambush and I cursed myself for the weakness of being distracted. Slamming my helm on the rest of the Paladin Wardens were doing the same thing. Taking off their robes and putting helms on. The sounds of fire erupted from one side of the convoy. Quickly I knew what we were up against by the sound. A mixture of autorifles and las rifles. Then the distinct clunk clunk clunk of a heavy autocannon fire. To answer that question Paladin “Gutz” fell down from the turret. His body stitched with high calabre rounds that impacted him. Entire chunks missing from his body. He was the first target of course manning the pulse Multi-las. 

In order to stop his death from being a blow I announced on comms that Paladin Guts will be buying the first rounds back at the Keep Star. The morbid humor is usually found in military groups as a coping mechanism from the horrors of war. His medical clone activating probably as we speak. The laughter I heard from the other Paladins confirmed the joke was well placed. As we usually joked that the first to fall in an operation got the first drinks. 

From the view of the drone I saw insurgents rushing the convoy firing at the drivers and passengers. The rear passenger hauler was not being fired at which was a mixed blessing. Near side Ambush! I exclaimed. In military tactics there is two styles of ambushes. Near ambushes and far ambushes. Well with far ambushes we hold in place and slug it out with them. However, near ambushes there is only one way to deal with it. To assault through.

Paladin Wardens, this is a near ambush I had declared. We will assault through them. Boy Scout I need you to man the multi-las as soon as this ramp drops and we charge out. Boy Scout accepted quickly and promptly climbed the ladder to the point of the lip of the turret. Everyone prep rifles to high charge. I don’t want to see anyone going full auto. This is burst and single shot. Make your rounds count. Boy Scout the first thing you need to target is the Autocannon nest located here. I patched the feed I was getting from the drone into his helm. He quickly rogered up his acknowledgement.

Paladin Wardens of the Provi 1st. When our ramps go down we must assault through the enemy. We must not hesitate or slow our advancement. If we hesitate we die. Only speed and violence of action will see us through the conflict. Everyone check equipment and roger up when you are green. As I was talking I opened my case and took out my las carbine and extended the stalk of the rifle to fit snugly upon my shoulder. I primed it to max output. This dropped the ratio of shots from 60 to 20. However, it would punch through any armor they may have and the velocity would toss the incoming raiders back.

I noticed Sarah hide behind some crates. The rest of the team were green. Already I heard some of the passenger Paladins exchange shots but they were drowned out from the incoming rounds. From my overlook I could see two of them down and the other wounded. I put the 3 point sling around my arm and head.

Stand by Paladin Wardens I declared. For God and Margrave Advance! The Ramps fell on three of the vessels and out pored the Paladin wardens as if angry ants out of a kicked mound. As one we advanced forward firing. The raiders were ill prepared for such an action. The first raider I saw hesitated as I descended the ramp. I switched my carbine from safe to single shot and then to burst. I lined up a shot low and squeezed the trigger. The resulting blast hit the raider in the hip, stomach, and then chest throwing him backwards about 5 feet.

The victory of the first engagement was short lived as another target presented itself and another. We were charging right into each other. The Paladin Wardens kept their lines and discipline and we were the farmers scythe and the enemy the wheat. The Paladins brought whole sale slaughter to the enemies of Providence.

The last burst my rifle gave a ping of empty from the battery. I allowed the sling to suck the rifle back to my chest as I drew my side arm in one fluid motion. I dispatched another heretic with quick bursts as I ran for cover. The purpose of the side arm is to get to your primary weapon. I holstered the pistol and started to reload. An insurgent ran up and leveled his las gun at me. I was certain death awaited me before a pair of las blast took the heretic in the chest. Looking back I saw Henry in position by the hauler sending death from his old rifle. I quickly changed my battery in the rifle and continued on the charge mentally noting I owed that man a beer.

I took stock of what was happening. The initial charge did devastating damage against the raiders. Able company was led by Aralis. The Grandfather of CVA and even in his advanced age he fought as a youth. While some coward behind cover he boldly advanced his bravery installing both shame to the timid and bravado to mimic.  Battle squad was led by Paladin Braptoer. His savagery and skill was telling. He kept his weapon on single shot taking target after target out in quick clean precessions. 

Moving forward again I heard the unmistakable sound of the autocannon blasting again it took the Paladin in front of me in the upper torso. Half of his body shredded away in an instant of pink mist. The Paladin to my left was hit in the next volley taking his leg from him cleanly. The momentum of the charge was about to be halted outright when the unmissable whine of the pulse multi-las started up. Its blast took the autocannon nest and destroyed it outright. Its blasts cooking off extra ammo and a small blast from the bunker could be felt in the chests of all present in the area.

We continued to charge up the small hill. We had slaughtered the closest insurgents and now those that brought up the rear retreated outright. We followed them bringing righteous judgement upon them. When we finally came to the lip of the hill we noticed it plateaued for 30 meters before it ascended into another hill. Once we reached the top we were caught unaware from fixed positions on top of the second plateau. Mixed autoguns and las fire pelted down from their positions. We fell back taking cover on the plateau lip.

A few more Paladins fell before the onslaught as well. Opening up comms I communicated to the Platoons. Able and Battle squad dig in and fire here. Aralis and Brap I need one shooter from each squad. They acknowledged my request. Chosen squad on me. I quickly ran down and started to move alongside the plateau. We started running alongside the lip for about 300 meters. Before turning and heading up the plateau allowing the trees to provide cover. We ran to the lip and crossed it and up the next plateau. The enemy would not see this left hook. It was textbook but something told me these enemies were preoccupied.

As we moved into position I started to recite prayers on our comms to calm our men and allow them to focus. *Rejoice, o chosen of God. For our blood fills this valley of Death. Proclaiming our sacrifice to god, And he shall raise it up for all time. The scriptures, Saint Junip 15:11*. As we got online the men checked their weapons for ammo and readiness. I received greens from all men.  Put charge to normal. No need to overdue and run out of ammo short of the objective.

Paladin Wardens of Providence. *Face the enemy as a solid wall. The rest of the platoon intoned with me the catechism. For our faith is your armor, and through it, the enemy will find no breach. Wrap your arms around the enemy. For faith is your fire, and with it, burn away his evil. Scriptures, Amarr askura 10:3*.

Able and Battle Shift fire! I yelled the command and immediately the two squads shifted fire from to the right side of the enemy line to the left. This is done so there is no friendly fire between the two separate elements. We charged forward as one on the left flank. I opened up my helm to broadcast out load as we got close. At 20 meters from their line we opened fire strafing their position from the side. For GOD and PROVI I screamed as I sent las round after las round into the bodies of the enemy. 

We crashed into their positions bringing death and destruction. Moving swiftly an insurgent tried to lift up their autogun and it misfired. They frantically tried to fix the rusted out gun. The climate must of wreaked havoc on these autoguns. The undisciplined insurgent probably didn’t do proper maintenance. That ounce of prevention caused them their death as a las round punched into their chest cauterizing the wound instantly. The insurgent looked shocked at the wound not realizing their own death. The man stood there in shock looking at the smoking wound right before I put my foot to his chest sending him flying back. I put three more blasts into the body before moving forward.

When moving tactically it is important to always lean forward. This helps for bracing for the carbine kicking back upon firing but also in case you are hit. Which happened. A round struck my carapace and momentarily slowed me. I continued forward placing a controlled pair of las bolts into the insurgent’s chest following up with one shot into the computer chip of the head.

Paladin Warden Saltz then looked over to the Priest-Interrogator. Have you ever been shot before? Well it feels like being slugged by a Heavy weight boxer. It also hurts. Caliber rounds can be peculiar. Some are made to punch through you. Others to hit and tumble around inside making more damage. Las rounds on the other hand just tear right through you. The best thing about Las rounds is they cauterize the wound so you won’t bleed out. That has saved me several times. However, I digress.

We continued on before I ordered a cease fire for Able and Battle squads. Just like that we had gone through the line. Able and Battle advance I called. We had swept the battle field and went through the line. However, in ancient terms to go back and shoot the enemy was considered dishonorable. However, sending fresh faces to finish off any survivors allowed us to maintain honor. It was an old tradition predating even Providence. It went back many millennia.

They hesitantly moved up shooting las blasts at anything twitching or even to ensure what appeared to be a dead body stayed dead. After they passed through the scene of carnage all of us converged onto the scene and took stock of what we did. I inspected the bodies. A few of them wore the ragged military uniforms of the enemy. The dirt stained symbol gave testament of whose loyalty they swore to. Their masters bore the symbol of the virus. 

The others were civilians. Collaborators I intoned. These were the people that were taken in the original invasion that they did not evacuate. They were given a choice of serving PL or execution. Many chose the latter however, some like these choose a different path. We went through the bodies and instantly from one side a voice spoke up. 

Parley! Parley! Mercy a man spoke from under the corpse of his comrade. A Paladin kicked the corpse over revealing a uniformed soldier. Please! Paladins I wish for mercy. I walked over to the Pandemic Legion soldier. For the murder of innocent civilians, for crimes of genocide, for piracy, theft, and the desecration of corpses. In the name of God, Empress, Empire and the Margrave of the Providence Marches, I Paladin Warden Kyle Saltz sentence you to death by my hand. I pulled my side arm out and leveled it at his head. Mercy please, the soldier begged. This is Amarr! There is no mercy for those who war against it I intoned. The shot went right through his outstretched hand and through his head. 

I moved down to the convoy and took stock of the first engagement. I went to the Paladin that lost his leg. He had a combat tourniquet already applied to his upper thigh. It saved his life. I asked if he was ok. He nodded his head. He mentioned the tourniquet hurt like hell. I intoned that it’s supposed to hurt. Even more than the missing leg. If you loosen it up it would allow it to bleed out. In no time we would fix him up and he would have a cybernetic leg on that clone. He grunted his acceptance but remained calm. I ordered the Paladin next to him to administer combat drugs to dull the pain.

Paladin Saltz! A Paladin waved me over. The Paladin was standing over our medic. He had been shot multiple times in the chest. The battle carapace took the brunt of it but one of the autogun rounds went through. Bastards, our medic was marked by medical signs. He carried no weapon. In the rules of war they could not be targeted. However, like logi in space they usually are targeted first by our enemy.

They took the helmet off and immediately I recognized what it was. The signs of the labored breathing. Then the esophagus was moving over to one side. Sucking chest wound I declared. Give me the combat trauma bag. Give me las cutters we need to remove the armor. They handed me the cutters and I deftly removed the armor cutting it off quickly to expose the wound. Several bruises indicated that the torso was hit several times wearing down the armor before one penetrated. 

I spotted the wound and it bubbled blood slightly. The lung had been punctured and air was filling the chest cavity. It was slowly choking him to death as the lung could not gather oxygen. I checked behind him to see if the round came out. It had not so I did not have to worry about the exit wound. Breath out, I told the medic. He breathed out and I placed over the wound a plastic medical piece it sealed the moment it touched skin. Then took out a needle from the bag. I found his top rib with my fingers and went down two ribs. Then at a 45 degree angle I shoved the needle deep into his chest. I released the cap of the needle and air flowed out. Instantly the ability of our medic to breath was obvious. 

You saved him one of the Paladins announced. No, I remarked. I only prevented him his death. He will still die unless we get to him to proper medical care. Everyone gather up. At that time shots rang out and more screaming. I ran to see what else could be going on. It was a uniformed PL soldier and he had a hostage. It was Sarah. 

The man was screaming. I want off this damnable planet. I hate it. Call for a shuttle now. I just want to leave this place. I hate this world, I hate this region, you and your stinking Providence. I want to just go home! I slowly walked forward my rifle already out. He pointed the auto pistol at her head and swung it around to the people watching. I moved forward at 30 meters walking slow while pointing my rifle at him.

When in a hostage situation there is a strict method in which one must take a shot. Especially on the move. One must remember the offset. On our battle rifles the red dots sit atop of the rifle. While at distances this will not matter however, in close distances you must put the red dot higher than you want it to be. Such as pointing the dot on his hair line.

The problem also presented is that I was moving. To counteract the moving part you must bend your knees and create a stable platform in which to shoot. You must try not to shoot when you plant your foot but in mid stride. Furthermore breathing is also important. You must fire only between breaths. So either taking in air and holding or exhaling and then holding. Further, the beat of the heart must be considered. The beat could throw off the round so one must concentrate. One must slow the heart beat and focus.

The trigger pull must also be precise. The slack from the trigger must be taken out. This is the subtle pulling of the trigger until it will go no further. This tells me that only an ounce more of pressure and it will fire. This is important to remove the chance of “pulling or jerking the trigger”. It would cause the aim to go off striking the hostage or going wide. All this must be done at once. Many people have never trained for this instance. I had not got to this level of training with the Paladins. However, this was something that I had done hundreds of thousands of times. To perfect a head shot you must at least do this 10,000 times. To ensure you were capable you must do it for a lifetime.

Time slowed, I remember Aralis talking to him to put down his weapon. It kept him occupied while I closed in. I needed to get with-in my sweet spot. I had to get at least 10 meters for the shot. 15 and I would be stressed at the success rates. I only wanted to shoot once. At 15 he took notice of me. Swinging his pistol at me I continued but slower. I told him that we need to calm down and let’s talk this out. He pointed his gun at Sarah. I knew he wouldn’t shoot. She was his shield. I needed three more steps. I continued forward and at the last moment he swung the pistol at me.

Finally I entered the space I needed to be successful. I squeezed the trigger and my las-blast took him in the left brow. He dropped instantly. The computer chip of the mind being destroyed and the rest became a dead flesh bag. Reality came crashing in. The noises and shouts and everything else.

Sarah was sobbing hysterically. She rushed over to her fallen father. He was lying in a pile of his own blood. He was past recovery. His body already turning cold.  Henry was a good man. He had served the Empire most of his adult life. Ending it here was not fair to him. He had saved my life. I could be reborn into another clone. He couldn’t. He was by far the bravest man here.

Sarah looked at me and begged me to help him as I did the others. I shook my head and told her there was nothing I could do. His death had been quick judging from the shots. At least that could be some comfort to know. I checked his body and closed his eyes. His death was quick I informed her. He did not have any pain. He is with god now. She pushed me off him. As she held him.

Commander Saltz, you need to see this. It came from another Paladin going over the previous positions of dead insurgents. I rushed up to the plateau and then onto the second one. Over what appeared to be an officer there was a small hand held scanning device. It appeared to be a tracker. It was denoting a pulse and responded back with a green blip. I pointed to the convoy and continued down the hill moving closer to it.

Finally moving closer to the convoy the blips became quicker and more frequent. It took me right up to Sarah and her father before it started bleating nonstop. Sarah I intoned? She looked at me already ash faced with grief. I had to she intoned. Before they said they would let our convoy go if I gave up other convoys. Then they said this would be the last one. They just needed to get supplies. Nobody was supposed to be hurt. I tried to radio them but my radio broke after I realized you all would be fighting. I tried to stop them…Sarah I intoned weakly finally knowing the full measure of what was happening.

My voice felt dry. Sarah explain. She looked at me with tears streaming out of her face. I swallowed a tracker that let them knew our position. Emotions rocked me. I did not know how to deal with what was coming. However, everyone was watching. They all heard what had happened. 

Sarah, for aiding and abiding the enemy of our people. For assisting in the murders of other convoys, the theft of materials and goods, for espionage, and treason committed against the Providence Marches. I stood up and un-holstered my pistol. In the name of God, Empress, Empire, and the Margrave of the Providence Marches I sentence you to death by my own hand. Do you have any last requests?

She looked up to me and finally she seemed to be calm. Thank you Kyle. This is the salvation that I need. I deserve this more than you know. It’s ok Kyle. I forgive you. I could hear a scream from behind me and the rushed steps. Paladins blocked the rushing Mary stopping her from this action. I could hear her screams of why. Sarah took off her gold holy symbol around her neck and handed it to me. I could smell the jasmine as I took the necklace. Keep it she said. She nodded that she was ready and I pulled the trigger.

Some blood splattered my visor. I holstered the pistol. I ordered for the wounded and our dead to be loaded up on the convoy. I ordered the PL insurgents to be piled up and burned. The mother was let go. She slapped my helm and her light fists pummeled my chest all the while screaming why…WHY? WHY? I was silent. No words could I form to explain that her daughter was a traitor. That it was because of her actions that led to her own father being killed in action. No, I would rather the mother believe I was a killer. I was a killer. I was glad I wore a helm. That was nobody could see the tears streaming down my face. I relented on one thing. I did not allow them to put Sarah in the pyre. I owed her father that much. At least they would be buried together when we reached the founding. 

In total 7 Paladins were killed in action and 5 more wounded. Two of those severally enough to have advanced prosthetics. There was also 4 civilian deaths. Mary filed charges against me at the local police office. I submitted to it and went willingly. Which lead me here. 

The Priest-Interrogator looked at the warden. His face hid the sadness he felt for the young Paladin. At that time another man entered the interrogation chamber. From the markings on the uniform it put him as a high ranking officer of the Provi-Bloc Coalition. That testimony matched that of the other Paladin Wardens and data we took from the helms of the Paladins. I believe this is no longer necessary. Paladin Warden Kyle Saltz you are free to go. 

With that the Paladin Warden left the chambers leaving the officer and the interrogator present. The door shut and the Priest-interrogator looked up to the officer. Sir, there is one thing that does not make sense to me. His story, and his back ground. The tactical and strategic know how. This is from someone that appears to have no record going back more than two years. Who is Paladin Warden Kyle Saltz? It says here before coming to CVA he was a miner in High Sec. This makes no sense that he was so trained. 

The officer looked over to the interrogator and scowled. The files of what Paladin Warden Kyle Saltz was over two years ago are classified. The priest looked over to the officer and squinted his disproval. I have a Top Secret clearance with access to Gamma, Horizon, and Vermillion. I should be informed of such backgrounds that are important to any interrogation. The officer stepped forward. You have no need to know what Paladin Warden Kyle Saltz did more than two years ago. Any further questioning and you will be brought up on charges. Is that clear interrogator? The officer stood over the interrogator.

Once the priest-interrogator nodded the officer continued. This meeting never took place. You will forget this ever happened. All records will be handed over to the home office immediately. Have a good day interrogator. The officer did an about face and walked out of the interrogation chambers. The Priest left dumbfounded by the whole situation.

It was 1900 in the Keepstar Paladin Warden Kyle Saltz had just finished showering and was laying on his bed looking at the clock. Finally he got up and quickly changed into civilian clothes. He rushed to the launching bay and got into his interceptor. Upon gaining launch access he undocked and went planet side. He landed in the small port of the founding. After paying handsomely for a taxi service he found himself on the corner of Chapel Hill and New Amarr Blvd.

He looked at the brightly lit restaurant and entered inside. He informed the hostess that he wished for a table for two. Upon arriving at his seat he asked to be served the special and a drink. He pulled out a simple gold necklace and placed it on the table. Its 2034 the Paladin exclaimed. I’m sorry I am late Sarah. I’m sorry…

