---
tags:
  - Prose
  - Eridan
  - PodandPlanetYC117
  - TOBEFORMATTED
---

# Capsuleer's Blues

> Author: Eridan

> Original post: [https://pastebin.com/j3ef2L7d](https://pastebin.com/j3ef2L7d)

> Entry for the YC117 Pod and Planet Fiction Contest in the Eight Thousand Suns in New Eden category.


A man is going down the street. Asphalt under his shoes, shop windows in front of him, and concrete jungle above his head. As far as he remembers, this is called a street, or maybe an avenue ; what's the point ? What really strikes him is the smell. Here air is smelling, not like in air conditionned pods where all vital parameters are mecanicaly adjusted just to allow a body to survive.
He likes to consider that Tash-Murkon V is his home, even if he is not born here and if he never dwelt on this planet. The world with 18 moon ; the night is never dark here. Night and day are planetarian concepts have no more sense aynway. On a spaceship, there's a lighted side which faces the sun, and the dark side which looks toward deep space : it can be night or day, depending on the window you are looking through.
He turns left, in a small passage. A smashed purple can of Quafe Ultra ™ lays on the dirty street. The man remembers a delivery he made for Quafe company and winces. He shoots it, as far as possible from him. There is a rusty bar door, not far from there. He has nothing else to do, noone to visit... and no time for anything in fact, but he enters anyway.
There's noone inside, but the bartender of course... and a lot of dust. Music is missing : that's fate, you can't find perfection as you're alive. Paradise is clearly the best part of death.
-”Are you the owner of... all this ?
- Yes sir. What do you want to drink ?
- Do you have Kirgiesta ?
- I do. Crimson label. Good for you ?”
The man takes four rolls of banknotes out of his pockets and puts them on the desk.
- “ One billion ISK. I am buying this bar. And good news for you, I need to hire a barman. You're my employee now.
- Sir ? My humble trade is not worth the hundredth of your offer. Are you sure ?
- Yes I am. Now give me that aalavesta bottle and write a proper act of sale... And listen to me.”
 
The bartender opens a bottle of green liquor and pours some in a glass. Then he takes paper and pen to write the bill. The man looks at the green colored liquid ; his eyes are empty.
- “I am born and bred as a slave. Mummy was intendant of the Master's domain. I never knew about my father, even if I have my own idea about that. When a young boy, I used to play with a ball, green and red stripes, the only toy I ever had. But the domain was a windy place and I was close to loose my ball a few times. One day the master was there, I dared to suggest him to build a white wall so that he could grow grapes – and thus prevent my ball to be lost. I never knew why he accepted a six year's old boy's advice, but he did. And as he became famous among his friends for these grapes, and as for me I could play safely. But the largest consequence of that happened three years later, when the master allowed me to go to school. I guess that he wanted me to grow a sane mind so that my faith in amarian religion stands strong.”
-”The Master send me to private school, where there are no citizens and slaves, just contributors. Nevertheless I stayed a slave, whose life is dedicated to work. So I was apart from my schoolmates, always alone. There I learned numbers and letters ; mummy taught me all she could about  stewardship. At this time I was very interested in history, about Amarr Empire and specially Ni-Kunni, my mother's kin.”
-“When a teenager, one of my teacher critisized Heideran VII diplomatic relations with Gallente federation. I don't know why, but I felt outraged and punched him roughly. He felt and bumped against wall. When he wake up a few hours later at sick-room, he has a few teeth missing. I was expeled from the school this very day. I stayed in the domain a few weeks, helping mummy as I could, awaiting the Master wrath. When he came back from his business trip, he called me in his office. I was frightened. He wanted me to say why I hit the teacher. I explained that in my opinion peace is more prone to business than war, and that the Emperor, as protecting divinity of the Empire, can not be contested by minor elements of the society. I was so afraid to have displeased the Master that I could not imagine that he would have laugh. He congratulated me an swear to send me to university, the one of my choice.”
-“The Emperor died. I graduated high school and began studies at Royal Amarr Institute. For the first time in my life, I felt free, standing on my own. Most of the students from the richest familly in the Empire don't understand the power of knowledge and the luck to have access to it. That's why I worked harder than them, having no fun. I met a girl, very smart, from a good familly, not that cute. Despite all my efforts, I felt in love for her, but as I was a slave she refused close relations. I studied even harder after that, cause I learned the bitter taste of lonelyness. I remember Emperor Doriam II himself came at Emrayur main Auditorium to make a speech about peace and glorious future of the Empire, through economic competition. One year later he was assassinated. Then arose my Emperess, Jamyl Sarum.”
Just with eye movements the man asks some drink. His employee pours some Kline Nisood special blend.
- “Hail to Jamyl Sarum”, he shouts. He empties his glass in one shot.
- “The Emperess freed me and my mother. The Master was kind enough to keep my mother to his service, and continue to pay my scholarship. In fact, he had a plan and told me he would have a special present for me if I get excellent grades.That's what he said, that's what I did. I graduated in spaceship engineering and of course I did great in other academic fields like multi-cultural marketing.”
The man looks at his empty glass.
- “ The special day of the special present arrived. We were three in the Master's office ; I never met them nor knew their names. He told us that we were his three most promising pupils. His offer was to make us capsuleers and to let us compete on economic battlefield. At the end of one year, the richest would become his heir. I grab an arm on my right and send the guy against the closest wall. His head bumped the stone and he felt uncounscious. The third guy was really afraid, he took a paper knife but his hand was shaking like a leaf. I quickly disarmed him and blocked his arm. Three time I asked him to give up, and three times he did not bowed. I had to break his bones to hear him cry. Then I turned toward the Master. You're my only heir, he said. But as you are my sons, these two are your brothers. What do you intend to do for them ? I told him to keep the stuned one close to him as a faithfull helper. For the other, I asked to keep him close to me cause I would need a trusted first mate. But none of them could become capsuleer ; I only. From that day, I call the Master, Father. Funny how the two words sound nearly the same, isn't it ?”
-”I spent my last month as human by my mummy. It was the happiest moment in my life. I remember sunrises and sunset, taste of honey and cinnamon, afternoon heat and evening freshness, iridescent sky colors. Mummy was getting old, very tired at the end of the day, but always working. I realised that I would live forever, and not her. She is dead now. Heart attack. Noone around to help her.”
The man asks a refill, stays a while silent looking at the colored liquor.
- “Then all went fast. I get cloned, brain recorded and stored to install a copy of what I was in a pod. I made my first money making easy jobs for Amarr Constructions. Teachers from Royal Amarr Institute told me about the Tash-Murkon familly, looking for talented capsuleer. The familly helped me in many ways : a quiet place to work on blueprints, first contact with other capsuleers, fund raising to develop my own entreprise. I am e-war drone designer. And Veemce, my half-brother is a good operationnal director. As you can guess, there's much money to make in space, but you can't even imagine how much : it's mere madness.”
- “A week from now, Father asked me to come and see him at his manor. We had to discuss about Drifters and Empire future. I was not surprised, Father is told about many secrets of the Empire administration. It was a fair day, asteria were blooming, a nice odor came out of the kitchen, and I am always pleased to see Father. Klave was standing by his side, as usual, but with a predatory smile, which was uncommon. Time as come to prove allegiance to your beloved Father, he said. I want you to help Yonis Ardishapur to prepare for Amar Championship, and forget the puny Tash-Murkons, as he knew I am supporting them. I answered that my honor commands me to disobey to my Father, whereas my faith shows me clearly the choice he made is enlighted by divine providence. But the honor of our name would me misregarded if I would not help those who helped me first. Moreover I  prayed for Catiz Tash-Murkon victory, for her to become our new Emperess ; none of us wanted me to become a traitor to our faith. I really tried to explain him why I can not do what he expected from me. But he did not hear me ; worst of all,  each time I spoke I saw the grip of Klave on Father's shoulder become firmer. Father's only answer was to say that not obeying him would mean leaving his family ; Klave's eyes were burning with greed. So I bowed and left home, pretending had a lot to do for this new sponsorship. Mu half-brother was clearly disapointed, which was a great satisfaction.”
-” As far as I know, Father's ship has been trapped in a Blood Raider incursion when going to Amarr Prime ; neither him nor Klave survived. Veemce had troubles with his acid trips and actually can't wake up. I guess the doctors have powered off all the machines that were keeping him alive. I told him many times to stop it yet. There are so many ways to show you familly you love them.”
The man takes the Kline Nisood and drinks directly from the bottle. He reads the bill of sale and put it in a pocket. Then he gets a small gun out of an inner pocket if his coat and puts it on the desk.
-” I have no familly left. No wife to wait for me cause I was a slave and now I am living in stars, forever. Do you understand FOREVER ? I have no friends, they always betray you anyway. I am just the copy of a former slave, great achievement isn't it ? Is there something that really matters ? … Yes, indeed, there's something. A relic of father : it is said to be a music instrument, a poach with a flute and four other empty wooden pipe stuck on it. Nobody knows how to use it nor the kind of sounds it makes ; I'd have really loved to hear it.”
The man stands up.
-”Well Alvmare, it's time for you to prove you're a good employee, and ambitious. Take the gun and shoot me. In the head, in the heart, anywhere you want, something lethal...
- Go on take that gun and shoot. The bar will be yours again if you do so.”
The barman takes the gun but his hands are shaking.
-”Don't be a pussy ! Shoot, I said. You're my employee. Shoot !”
The man takes the barrel in his hand and put it on his front.
- “All you've got to do is to push the trigger. You get you bar back, and the money. Isn't it a good deal ? Shoot now !
-For the Emperess' sake, be more than a looser. Shoot !”
Exceeded, the man takes the gun from the barman's hands and shoot a bullet in his head.
He is dead ; the body on the floor drowned in its own blood. One can't knows if the man is happy, there's almost nothing left of his face.
The barman is so shocked that he can't even shout. He just flees, after he takes the bill of sale and all the cash on the corpse of his former employer.
 
****************
 
- “Ah. At last you awake, Sir. There's much to do since two days. First of all congratulation for your inheritance. CTM is requesting half the mmoney you promised her in three days. Can I send the money ? Amarr investors is awaiting the new drone design you promised them. They'd like to know when you'll finish the prototype and begin the tests. I answered at least a month. What shall I say else ? The power leak that lasted for three months in section 4-08 has been fixed : it was a sabotage for a pay hike you refused. The employee had some trouble with the mess food and now you have to discuss with sanitary authorities ; the text is on your desk. The navy delivered Acolytes drones you ordered but they want to know about your customers before they send Infiltrators and Praetors. The fleet sufferd heavy losses and is in shortage. You'll have to explain that to your... uncle.
- “OK, I understand ; thank you. Transfer ISK to Catiz; double the amount ; I can afford that now. I still have work to do on the new drones. I go to the vault. I don't want to be interrupted. A month will be fine, you answered well. Can you send the memo to the authorities yourself please ? I allow you to use my sigil. I'll contact my uncle just after a warm shower. Ah.. something else, find Alvmare Hoquetot, a barman in Tenkermill, Tash-Murkon V, he has two billion and one thing that belongs to me. Ask our friends to take care of him.