---
tags:
  - Prose
  - Seraph Essael
  - PodandPlanetYC115
  - TOBEFORMATTED
---

# Midway

> Author: Seraph Essael

> Original post: [https://forums-archive.eveonline.com/message/3759081#post3759081](https://forums-archive.eveonline.com/message/3759081#post3759081)

> Author's note: I have written books before, but only for my own benefit. This is the first time I have ever written and allowed anyone else to read one of my creations. So to all those who do read it, I thank you and urge you to write a comment in the box below (even if it simply states “utter crap”).<br>As far as the story below is concerned. I am happy with the overall outcome. However I feel that the ending might seem somewhat rushed. I still don’t fully know.<br>I am also very new to Eve, literally a 2013 character, so lore is something that I have only briefly looked into. I hope that this story is as accurate as possible.<br>About the title. I had major issues naming my story but eventually settled for the name ‘Midway’. Basically, I wrote most of this whilst also listening to my favourite band Sabaton. The song Midway came on and I realise that the system of Iyen-Oursta was supposed to be a mid point between the Caldari and the Gallente, so it seem fitting to name it such.<br>Again, thank you for reading and I urge you to leave a reply stating what you liked and what you didn't.

> Entry for the YC115 Pod and Planet Contest in the Eight Thousand Suns in New Eden category.


Captain Vollel Yyx had led a full life, or at least as full a life as possible for a Caldari Navy Officer. He had worked his way up the ranks, eventually making it to Captain Rank 2 only a few months ago. This new appointment came with the command of his own vessel and an extensive array of new technology and training. He could name every ship he had ever served on, from frigates to cruisers, which was to be expected of every naval officer. And after sixty two years of service, that was a lot of vessels.
Yyx stood on the balcony of his quarters looking out onto the hanger where his ship sat. A Condor. It was perfect; newly built for him to fly in training and in the very mission he was about to undertake. There was no crew compliment to accompany the ship however, there was no need for them. Not any more.
One ship. One crew member.
Before now, these ships used to have a full crew compliment right down to the engineers. No more. The Captain of the ship would take on the role of everyone through an invention kept classified to the masses and only given to the Caldari. Only those involved with this new invention knew of the background to this amazing technology; by that, it was meant that they only knew where it had come from. They did not fully understand how the technology worked, nor were they told.
“Captain,” A relatively short but stocky man spoke from behind him, “Orders just come in. I am to escort you to your ship.” He sprung up a salute to which the Captain returned.
“Lead on… then… Lieutenant.” Yyx’s voice came out cracked with a pang of nervousness. He immediately cleared his throat. This time it came out crisp and clear, with a sense of command. “Lead on”.

---

Yyx stroked his stubble as he stood in the entrance to the hanger on his own ship, staring at the object and the people that occupied the space before him. The doors sealed firmly behind him with the sharp hiss of hydraulics.
Three high ranking Caldari officers, including the Vice Admiral of the fleet, stood with two other people. These people, he used that term lightly due to the extensive amount of genetic modification that they had undertaken, were short in stature, roughly four foot high, but they clearly commanded the respect of everyone else in the room, even if they were slightly odd looking. They were bald with grey-yellow skin, but it was not these features that made them odd; it was the fact their veins were visible through their skin. Veins that pulsated sickeningly, especially on their head and necks.
They were Jove.
Yyx tore his gaze away from the closer of the two when it looked at him so as to not insult it. They didn’t like people staring, he had learnt this the hard way a few month ago when he was first selected for training and genetic enhancements with a number of others. They really did not like people staring.
His eyes traversed the entirety of the hanger which seemed to take an age, even though it was a relatively small space, before landing on the object in the centre of the room. This object was the reason for his genetic enhancements and for the rushed, but extensive training that he had undertaken over the past months. He had been ‘connected’ to the object more times than he cared to remember and he both feared and respected it at the same time.
It was a capsule. It actually barely fit into the hanger; obviously this had been specially retrofit to accommodate this new equipment and probably the reason he had not been allowed onto, let alone near to, his ship in the past days. Standing at roughly four metres, it was a starship that had built in sub-light engines and it was even capable of reaching warp. The hatch was open and the insides could be seen. There was room for a human to sit inside, amidst all the smaller intricate tubes that connected into said human and around the inside ‘shell’ where larger tubes that allowed the pod to be filled with the ectoplasmic liquid, or pod goo as the Caldari that were to pilot the capsule called it, from the fluid tanks.
His new retrofit hanger was barely recognisable; it showed no resemblance to what it originally looked like. Instead, now this capsule had been installed, it was full of wires that connected the pod to the ship. He wondered if this pod was the same one that he had been using in the dry runs, but surely it couldn’t be. It would have taken weeks to uninstall it from where it was originally and wire up his entire ship to the pod. Wouldn’t it? He thought about it for a second before the sudden realisation hit him. If they had done this to his hanger, what on Caldari Prime had they done to his bridge? His wondering was cut short by the Vice-Admiral who had spotted the Captain and waved him over. He was already in conversation with the two Jove, although that stopped once he came within ten paces.
“Captain Yyx,” the Admirals voice was gruff and he quickly returned the salute that the Captain had thrown up, “As you can see your capsule has been installed onto your ship.” That confirmed the Captains previous thoughts.
“Well the Jove certainly don’t screw around when it comes to getting stuff done do they Sir?” It was more of a rhetorical question that came across semi-abruptly even if he had nodded respectively at the Jove who were now staring at him with their oddly piercing eyes. Huh, so much for hypocrisy he thought to himself before looking back at the Admiral. “And with all due respect Sir, but when will I actually find out why I’m here exactly?”

“Mind your place Captain. But no, they do not.” The Admiral had picked up on the tone of the Captains first question. “As for information. Well Captain that was on a strictly need to know basis. It just so happens however, that our business has just become yours. Follow me to the bridge please.”
It was not a request. The addition of the Admirals ‘please’ had been out of respect for the Jove. Although that did not matter, at least Yyx would now find out what these things had done to his bridge.

---

Yyx took a deep breath before the door hissed open, and then abruptly let it out when he saw the inside of his command centre. It hadn’t changed, not one bit. No wires poking out of consoles. No weird little people stood in front of more equipment that he doubted that the ship even needed. It was exactly the same, right down to the blank name plate on the bulkhead above the main view-port. The Admiral had clearly picked up of the breath of relief as he spoke up.
“Expecting something different were you? Also, as a side note, name your damn ship Captain. You can’t go flying around with a vessel simply know as ‘Vollel Yyx’s Condor’.” He raised an eyebrow as he went on. “Ever other capsuleer has named their vessels. Have you thought about any names, you have had the vessel six months?”
Yyx paused for a second. Dare he ask? The worse the Admiral could say was no and name the vessel himself.
“Well there is one I have thought of Admiral. Although I am unsure whether it would be allowed? During our first few weeks of training, the Jove told us of a sacrifice made by a Lieutenant that had given his life so that we could have this new technology. While we were not told of the nature in which he gave his life, I feel that he should be honoured by having at least one ship named after him?”
“Very well Captain. I know of the Lieutenant of which you speak, so I don’t see why this would be an issue. Although you can never tell anyone without clearance of your reasoning behind the naming. Is that understood Captain?” Yyx nodded and the Admiral walked over to the star map controls. “Now onto business.”
He pressed a button on the console and the lights dimmed. A three dimensional star map appeared from the holographic projector built into the system. It was a star map of New Eden containing thousands upon thousands of star systems. It was truly a thing of beauty. New Eden had been a fresh start since the collapse of the Eve Gate. This was their home now. Millennia of evolution and technological breakthroughs had seen to that. The Admiral continued to press buttons and the map then zoomed in on a cluster of stars.
“As you are well aware, the Caldari / Gallente war has been somewhat stagnated over the past months and the State is still not yet ready to give up on the reclaiming of our home planet. Nor will it at any time in the future. Our leadership has been trying new ways to gain the upper hand over the Gallente and this has meant that we have had to send more scout patrols out into enemy occupied systems.” The map zoomed in even further, shifting from a star map of multiple stars to a map with the orbiting paths of planets and other celestials. He continued. “This is the system of Iyen-Oursta, our intelligence reported yesterday at 0300 hours that this is where a massive force of Gallente ships are congregating around the sixth planet in the system. We know they have this new drone technology and with it they plan to invade our boarders. Their drone technology was created to counter our frigates and while they are not as adept and advanced as our ships they are still a threat.” The Admiral shut off the star map. “We have the entirety of the Caldari might behind us and we are going to hit them head on. If we can wipe out the bulk of their force, we know they are going to throw every vessel they can into defending that fleet, then that might allow us to then gain access to the home planet and allow us to reclaim what is rightfully ours. We also have our ace in the hole, so to speak: Our new frigates and their pilots.”
“Our job Sir?” Yyx enquired with a puzzled look on his face. He knew that there was not many capsuleers due to the fact he had been training with them for the past few months. The Admiral, or whoever it was in charge of this operation was clearly overestimating the chance of a few new, state of the art vessels complete with new pod technology. There was no way that so few pilots could even make a dent in the might of the Gallente Federation.
“Your job Captain, as the most senior officer to be granted use of this new technology, is to lead the wing of capsuleers against the Federation.” Captain Yyx felt his heart beating in his throat. They’re sending us to die he thought. The Admiral continued. “You will be backed of course by the State fleet, every available ship we have at our disposal will be behind you. Including my vessel and that of the Fleet Admirals. We will deliver swift and justified destruction to their new toys.” He had added that last part with a somewhat rather smug grin.
“Is that all Sir?”
“There is one other thing; it is also the reason why I have briefed you separately.” The Admiral placed a hand on the young Captains shoulder and continued. “Your family. I know you have been searching for answers for years since the home world was evacuated. I know you have had no word. They boarded the cruiser ‘Nobatas’ when the evacuation order was given. Due to them given priority being an officer’s family, that cruiser was one of the first off the ground. Because of this, it was one of the first to attempt an evac run. The Nobotas left the surface when the fighting was thickest and was one of the few ships that did not make it. They may have gotten out via an escape pod. However, due to the inability for us to perform SAR in the area, we have been unable to look for any such survivors.” The Captain’s fists had clenched at this point.

“Why was I not made aware of this... Sir?” he added the Sir with utmost loathing at the end.
“Because this was a disaster that no one needed to know about. There were untold casualties in the first hour of evacuation. Let alone the sheer amount of orbital bombardments that took place. We could not risk the masses of our State hearing about the number of lives we had lost. Nor could we give the Gallente the satisfaction of knowing this number should it have been leaked.” He released the shoulder of the Captain. “It is also not up to you what information is given out from the heads of this great State.”
“Understood Sir.” He chose to completely ignore the last statement. “When does the operation commence?”
“As soon as we have prepared your ship and that of the other pod pilots, we can expect to be shipping out at 0500 hours tomorrow.” Only several hours from now the Captain thought as he walked off the bridge with the Vice-Admiral. He also had an odd feeling, one which he couldn’t quite place.

---

Once again the Captain found himself devoid of his attire, save for a piece of cloth wrapped around his gentalia simply there to protect the wearers modesty, and surrounded by two Jove and the two officers from yesterday. He noticed that the Vice-Admiral was not present this time. As the Jove went around the capsule making sure all final preparations where ready, one of the officers spoke.
“Captain, are you aware of your orders?”
“I am Sir.” The officer nodded.
“Before I forget, the name you have chosen for this vessel has been engraved onto the plaque in the bridge. Good luck Captain and fly safe.” Both officers threw up a salute as this final statement was made. Fly safe had become somewhat of a goodbye among the capsuleers, obviously the normal officers had been listening and taking note.
“I suppose this is the bridge now though” Yyx muttered as he turned and stepped into the capsule. Before he had even finished turning to face the front, the Jove had already begun to connect him up using the tubes. The other placed the familiar cap over his head. The cap stopped the Captain from being able to hear and see and also had tubes that went up the nasal passage to allow the controller to breathe. He could feel them inject the tips of the neural jacks into the cybernetic ports that were melded into his body. They where as much a part of him now as the bones he was born with.
As the final tube slipped into place he felt his whole body relax. He could feel the pod starting to fill up with the ectoplasmic liquid, it didn't feel as awful as the first time he had experienced it, but it still felt like he was being slowly lowered into a pool of water fully clothed. When the goo reached his neck he took one last deep breath through his mouth, before finally being fully submerged.
Once again the all too familiar feeling of panic set in before the Captain finally engaged his brain and allowed himself to set into his steady rhythm of normal breathing. It’s not like the capsule restricted movement or anything, it was simply the fact that, for the first several seconds, it felt like being voluntarily drowned.
Suddenly Yyx found himself facing the familiar white light and rushing sound of the capsules start up sequence, before connecting with the drone cameras that allowed him to see. He could see his ship and the station that it was docked in. He could even hear the usual sounds of the station, from the broadcasts over tannoy system to the hum of ship engines as they drifted past the entrance to his personal hanger. It was as if the gift of life had been endowed once again to him, all the senses rushing into the body at once. One capsuleer who he had undergone the training with had stated upon exiting the pod for the first time, “Sweet mother of god, that was like being birthed again”. Needles to say, that stuck with him for the rest of the training, even one of the Jove had curled one corner of his mouth up into a crude, disturbing smile. The capsuleer had also named his ship ‘Rebirth’ because of it.
Then in that moment of reminiscence the Captain realised something. He was not just sat inside the ship; the ship had become part of him. Another limb if you would. All life was based on the fact that electrical impulses from the brain controlled everything that you did. From speech to movement right down to the fundamental heartbeat and neural system. The ship was jacked straight into that same neural system, all he had to do was think about, well, anything. To be honest he wasn't even sure he even had to do that because the act of what he wanted was usually complete by the time he had finished thinking about it.
“Ahhh too much to comprehend” he thought.
“I’m sorry Sir, I’m not sure I follow?” Dock control replied. They had no idea that they were listening into his thoughts. The Captain had completely forgotten that everything was now jacked into his brain. Talk about invasion of privacy.
“Apologies, I was just thinking out loud. Literally. I believe you have some orders for where I am meeting the fleet? Also, am I clear to undock?” He began the ships start up sequence and awaited the all clear from the docking control officer.
“Undock clearance granted. You’re to rendezvous with the Caldari fleet at moon one. Please switch to fleet coms from this point forward. Good luck Captain”.
Yyx watched through his ‘eyes’ his own ship, with him onboard, undock from the gigantic station in a stable orbit. It was definitely odd. As he undocked he thought about looking around and as if in unison the camera angle shifted, there was virtually no delay. This wasn’t like the old VR games he had played as a child, this was real time. A ‘no delay’ act that was pure technological genius.

He also figured now would be a good a time as ever to sort out his UI. Throughout training, all capsules were to remain standardised with the same silly overview setting, basically everything crammed onto one part of the screen. Now he was in charge, he could tweak it to his own settings. It didn’t take long with his mind jacked into the system, and within minutes he had set up a different UI view for each of the different scenarios that he could think of. He had, of course, removed asteroids from his primary setting.
Yyx turned his thoughts from customising his user interface, that he had been in charge of officially for literally minutes, to his mission at hand and initiated the warp drive towards moon one. He felt, or at least he assumed he felt, as the capsule cut out all external feeling, the familiar tug as the ship slowed momentarily between the switch from sub-light to warp engines and the ship slipped into FTL.

---

Nothing of particular interest happened while the fleet gathered at moon one. He had taken command of his wing, strategically called ‘CapWing’ by the higher up. Perhaps they thought it funny, who knew? All Yyx knew was that he couldn’t shake this funny feeling that sat somewhere between his neck and his stomach. It was nerves of which he had never felt before, mixed with anger at the Gallente for the death of his family. Either was, it lasted the full hour before the fleet was finally ready to go. He had already given the order for his wing to align, and all had complied. Com chatter was strictly to a minimum, used only for fleet command to give their orders.
Several hours passed before the entirety of the Caldari fleet sat firmly on the border of the Iyen-Oursta system, no ship was getting in or out from their end, but this however, was not a blockade fleet. This was an invasion fleet. A fleet that would rain death and destruction in the form of a barrage of missiles and a hail of railgun fire.
“Until otherwise stated by your respective commanders, all ships are to engage opportunity targets as the situation arises. Primary for frigates will be the drones themselves. Cruisers will engage frigates and same sized vessels. And all battleship classes are to engage the drone boats and larger than cruiser vessels. Remember, once a ship goes down, this severs the connection to the drones themselves due to the frequency at which they operate. All vessels be ready to hit the jump gate on my mark. Wing commander’s address your wings respectively.” The orders came across clearly to all ships. Yyx quickly switched channels to wing coms.
“We have been chosen by the State not only as a test, but as ambassadors to the Jove. We have shown them what the Caldari are and what we are capable of. I won’t lie to you, we won’t be remembered in aeons to come by name. But we aren’t doing this to be remembered. The Gallente took our home. They threatened the lives of our people. They killed our families. But that wasn’t enough. The fleet massing in the next system is only light years away from our new home. They plan to invade our systems and that of New Caldari. I say this, to any pilot here today, we will stand as a shield against the invading force and we will act as a hammer, delivering to them the pain of what we have endured for too long. I say no more shall we endure the untold pain of families and friends.” Yyx paused before continuing. “I have trained and flown with you for several months now. We have endured painstaking enhancements to be able to be in this situation, to be able to strike back at our enemies. It is us that the fleet will look to, to win this war. I would pick every one of you over any number of these drones that our enemy throws at us. Remember those you are fighting for. Remember the State!” Yyx switched the wing communication back to fleet. And once the final wing commander had reported in the Admiral spoke.
“All ships ready and accounted for. On my mark. As soon as we land all ships will fleet warp to planet six and onward to victory. All for the good of many. MARK!

---

As the warp stream started to thin out, Captain Yyx finally understood what it was that nagging feeling had been in the back of his mind. He understood it now. He knew he wouldn’t be coming back.
“CapWing, as soon as we land on grid, primary will be the closet drone boat we can hit. If we have to smash through a line of drones to get through, so be it. All vessels will load missiles into bays and be ready to lock targets as soon as possibly. If you’re in range then you hold fire until you are ordered to do so. We want as much force from our alpha strike as possible”. As he finished giving his orders the fleet slid onto the grid.
“Holy… There’s so many of them.” The voice came over the com. Hundreds of cruisers sat at near exact intervals, spanning as far as the camera would allow the visual to see. Sat in between these cruisers were smaller frigate sized vessels and behind the line sat their bigger battleship classes. No drones where currently on grid, they knew the Caldari were coming, perhaps they overestimated their chances.
“All ships, weapons free.” The order came from the Admirals command vessel. Yyx followed that order with one of his own.

“All ships lock and engage the FNS Yamaguchi on my mark. No doubt they will launch drones as we approach, ignore and continue to cruiser target. Make fastest speed.” As he gave orders, his own vessels weapons systems locked the Gallente cruiser and its shields, armour and structure appeared on the user interface as Yyx’s sub-light engines had kicked in. He spun the camera around his own ship, noticing that his wing had pulled into perfect synchronisation with his own ship. And behind that, the railguns of the Caldari battleships had opened fire, releasing a storm of hybrid charges at the Gallente ships. Cruisers where already moving into position to unload their payload of missiles into the sides of the enemy ships. Rail and missile alike struck the enemy vessels with such force that some simple ripped through shield and armour as if they weren’t even there.
The Gallente where quick to respond, their ships moving into position and unleashing a swarm of drones from their bays. The Gallente ships prided themselves on ‘in your face’ tactics. Their blaster weapons where incredibly powerful and feared, but they also relied heavily on drones.
CapWing bore down on the Cruiser, moving so fast they simply smashed through the drones that it had released, ignoring the ones that weren’t destroyed when they erupted onto the shields of the oncoming frigates. The Yamaguchi’s weapons systems begin to fire rapid bursts of blaster fire at the Caldari pilots. But it wasn’t enough. The tracking of the weapons was so delayed due to the speed that CapWing was going.
“All ships engage.” The first flight of missile fire erupted from the batteries on the frigates straight into the sides of the vessel, within seconds; the alpha volley had taken down the shields. “These ships are armour tanked, but maintain an orbit and fire at will”.
Missile after missile erupted into the armour of the Gallente cruiser. There were far too many frigates for one cruiser to handle. Within a matter off minutes the ship began to erupt and smoke, its weapons systems had gone offline seconds before. One final missile struck one of the engine ports and the ship exploded in a ball of fire and mangled metal.

---

A few hours in, the battlefield had evolved into smaller ship to ship engagements as all ships were now within the range of each other weapons. Rail and blaster fire whipped backwards and forwards and the slower but more damaging missiles left trails throughout space. Wrecks of ships and drones where everywhere, but there was still an uncountable amount of vessels.
Vollel spun his ship around at angles that no normal ship could cope with, taking down drone after drone with missiles. There were more drones than any ship on the field, but they could not match the skill of the capsuleer pilots. For every few hundred drones destroyed, one Caldari vessel was destroyed and Yyx had lost count of the number that his missiles had taken out.
The Captain and his wing tore across the battlefield leaving an untold amount of destruction in their wake, from ships to drone, they wreaked havoc on any vessel they came across.

---

It wasn’t until the fourteenth hour of conflict that Yyx experienced problems. He had become separated from his wing as they had attempted to aid a Caldari battleship with a large number of drones. The battleship had unfortunately been destroyed and the resulting shockwave from the blast had taken the Condors shield to twenty-seven percent. Yyx knew he had to bail from the bulk of the drones or risk his ship.
Several drones had also broken off with him and were now ripping into his ship. His armour was also now starting to be damaged due to his shields being so low. He engaged the first few drones, but he also knew that his missile reserves were running low. Obliterating a few drones was no good as there would be more on him in seconds. He knew his ship was lost and there was no way he could get out the pod or disconnect it from the ship. His gut feeling had served him well, this was the end.
Yyx spun his camera around as his ship began to smoulder from the onslaught of drones that now pretty much engulfed his ship. He had found his target, a Gallente battleship, whose shields and armour where down but had managed to manoeuvre its way outside of any immediate danger. It was only ten thousand meters of his starboard side.
“Any ships that are still on this frequency that can hear me, it has been an honour and I have no regrets.” It was a futile attempt; the coms had been severed moments earlier.
Yyx aimed his vessel and overhauled his engines. The bridge of the Gallente battleship closed rapidly.
Five-thousand.
Three-thousand.
One-thousand.
Yyx closed his mind off as the distance to the target hit single figures.

---

As the dust clouds and debris finally settled after all ships had left the planets orbit. It was silent. The vacuum of space engulfed everything, deafening all. A small plaque, bent and dented, drifted through the debris field, catching the light from the star. It simply read:

“-THE PIRKOTAN -
-CONDOR CLASS FRIGATE-”